SVAR Doc (#1635)
ansys/pyfluent: doc/source/api/solver/svar.rst

.. _ref_svar_data:

SVAR data
=========

An SVAR is an array variable that holds the data for a particular
solved field (such as pressure or velocity). You can use svar_info
and svar_data objects to access Fluent SVAR info and data respectively.

Accessing SVAR objects
----------------------

Launch the fluent solver, and make SVAR objects available 
(for example, by reading case and data files):

.. code-block:: python

  >>> import ansys.fluent.core as pyfluent
  >>> from ansys.fluent.core import examples
  >>> import_filename = examples.download_file("mixing_elbow.msh.h5", "pyfluent/mixing_elbow")
  >>> solver = pyfluent.launch_fluent(mode="solver")
  >>> solver.file.read(file_type="case", file_name=import_filename)

The svar_info and svar_data objects are attributes of the solver object:

.. code-block:: python

  >>> svar_info = solver.svar_info
  >>> svar_data = solver.svar_data

SVAR info
---------
SVAR metadata information can be accessed via the following svar_info methods:

- ``get_zones_info`` for zone information.
- ``get_svars_info`` for SVAR information.

Get zone information

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: Missing some `~` chars

You can access zone information by calling the ``get_zones_info`` method.

.. code-block:: python
  
  >>> zones_info = svar_info.get_zones_info()

>   >>> zones_info.domains

Reviewer: Are `domains` documented anywhere?

  ['mixture']  
  >>>
  >>> zones_info.zones
  ['fluid', 'wall', 'symmetry', 'pressure-outlet-7', 'velocity-inlet-6', 'velocity-inlet-5', 'default-interior']
  >>>
  >>> zone_info = zones_info['wall']
  >>>
  >>> zone_info
  name:wall count: 3630 zone_id:3 zone_type:wall thread_type:Face
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.name 
  'wall'   
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.count 
  3630 
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.zone_id 
  3
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.zone_type 
  'wall'  
  
Get SVAR information

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: Missing `~`

.. _ref_svar_data:

> SVAR data

Author: @PipKat Kindly review.

.. _ref_svar_data:

SVAR data
=========

> You can use svar_info and svar_data objects to access Fluent SVAR
> info and data respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An SVAR is an array variable that holds the data for a particular
solved field (such as pressure or velocity). You can use svar_info
and svar_data objects to access Fluent SVAR info and data respectively.
```

> Fluent SVARs info and SVAR data.

Reviewer 2: I think we should start by saying briefly what SVAR is before saying that you can access them. I looked at the online Fluent docs to find a concise definition of SVAR to precede the above sentence, but it was very "technical" and doesn't readily carry across to PyFluent documentation. We might insert something like "An SVAR is an array variable that stores the solved data for a particular field".

  >>> solver = pyfluent.launch_fluent(mode="solver")
  >>> solver.file.read(file_type="case", file_name=import_filename)

The svar_info and svar_data objects are attributes of the solver object:

.. code-block:: python

  >>> svar_info = solver.svar_info
  >>> svar_data = solver.svar_data

SVARs info
---------
SVARs Info can be extracted with svar_info object.
Here are the methods for requesting SVARs Info:

- ``get_zones_info`` for zones info.
- ``get_svars_info`` for SVARs info.

Get zones info
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can request zones info by calling the ``get_zones_info`` method.

.. code-block:: python
  
  >>> zones_info = svar_info.get_zones_info()
  >>> zones_info.domains
  >>> ['mixture']  
  >>>
  >>> zones_info.zones
  >>> ['fluid', 'wall', 'symmetry', 'pressure-outlet-7', 'velocity-inlet-6', 'velocity-inlet-5', 'default-interior']
  >>>
  >>> zone_info = zones_info['wall']
  >>>
  >>> zone_info
  >>> name:wall count: 3630 zone_id:3 zone_type:wall thread_type:Face
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.name 
  >>> wall   
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.count 
  >>> 3630 
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.zone_id 
  >>> 3
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.zone_type 
  >>> wall  
  

> Get SVARs info

Reviewer 2: Maybe singular is better?

```suggestion
Get SVAR info
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can request SVARs info for a given ``domain_name`` and list of ``zone_names``
and by calling the ``get_svars_info`` method.

.. code-block:: python

  >>> svars_info_wall_fluid = svar_info.get_svars_info(zone_names=['wall' , "fluid"], domain_name="mixture")
  >>>
  >>> svars_info_wall_fluid.svars
  >>> ['SV_CENTROID', 'SV_D', 'SV_H', 'SV_K', 'SV_P', 'SV_T', 'SV_U', 'SV_V', 'SV_W']
  >>>
  >>> svar_info_centroid = svars_info_wall_fluid['SV_CENTROID']
  >>>
  >>> svar_info_centroid
  >>> name:SV_CENTROID dimension:3 field_type:<class 'numpy.float64'>
  >>>
  >>>svar_info_centroid.name 
  >>>SV_CENTROID
  >>>
  >>>svar_info_centroid.dimension 
  >>>3
  >>>
  >>>svar_info_centroid.field_type 
  >>><class 'numpy.float64'>  
  
SVAR data
---------
SVAR Data can be extracted and modified with svar_data object.

> Here are the methods for interacting with SVARs Data:

Author: ```suggestion
Here are the methods for interacting with SVAR Data:
```

.. _ref_svar_data:

SVAR data
=========

An SVAR is an array variable that holds the data for a particular
solved field (such as pressure or velocity). You can use svar_info
and svar_data objects to access Fluent SVAR info and data respectively.

Accessing SVAR objects
----------------------

Launch the fluent solver, and make SVAR objects available 
(for example, by reading case and data files):

.. code-block:: python

  >>> import ansys.fluent.core as pyfluent
  >>> from ansys.fluent.core import examples
  >>> import_filename = examples.download_file("mixing_elbow.msh.h5", "pyfluent/mixing_elbow")
  >>> solver = pyfluent.launch_fluent(mode="solver")
  >>> solver.file.read(file_type="case", file_name=import_filename)

The svar_info and svar_data objects are attributes of the solver object:

.. code-block:: python

  >>> svar_info = solver.svar_info
  >>> svar_data = solver.svar_data

SVARs info
---------
SVARs Info can be extracted with svar_info object.
Here are the methods for requesting SVARs Info:

- ``get_zones_info`` for zones info.
- ``get_svars_info`` for SVARs info.

> Get zones info
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> You can request zones info by calling the ``get_zones_info`` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get zone information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can access zone information by calling the ``get_zones_info`` method.
```

.. code-block:: python
  

>   >>> zones_info = svar_info.get_zones_info()
>   >>> zones_info.domains
>   >>> ['mixture']  
>   >>>
>   >>> zones_info.zones
>   >>> ['fluid', 'wall', 'symmetry', 'pressure-outlet-7', 'velocity-inlet-6', 'velocity-inlet-5', 'default-interior']
>   >>>
>   >>> zone_info = zones_info['wall']
>   >>>
>   >>> zone_info
>   >>> name:wall count: 3630 zone_id:3 zone_type:wall thread_type:Face
>   >>>
>   >>> zone_info.name 
>   >>> wall   
>   >>>
>   >>> zone_info.count 
>   >>> 3630 
>   >>>
>   >>> zone_info.zone_id 
>   >>> 3
>   >>>
>   >>> zone_info.zone_type 
>   >>> wall  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  >>> zones_info = svar_info.get_zones_info()
  >>> zones_info.domains
  ['mixture']  
  >>>
  >>> zones_info.zones
  ['fluid', 'wall', 'symmetry', 'pressure-outlet-7', 'velocity-inlet-6', 'velocity-inlet-5', 'default-interior']
  >>>
  >>> zone_info = zones_info['wall']
  >>>
  >>> zone_info
  name:wall count: 3630 zone_id:3 zone_type:wall thread_type:Face
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.name 
  'wall'   
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.count 
  3630 
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.zone_id 
  3
  >>>
  >>> zone_info.zone_type 
  'wall'  
```

> Get SVAR info
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> You can request SVARs info for a given ``domain_name`` and list of ``zone_names``
> and by calling the ``get_svars_info`` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get SVAR information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can request SVARs information for a given ``domain_name`` and list of ``zone_names``
by calling the ``get_svars_info`` method.
```

.. code-block:: python

>   >>> svars_info_wall_fluid = svar_info.get_svars_info(zone_names=['wall' , "fluid"], domain_name="mixture")
>   >>>
>   >>> svars_info_wall_fluid.svars
>   >>> ['SV_CENTROID', 'SV_D', 'SV_H', 'SV_K', 'SV_P', 'SV_T', 'SV_U', 'SV_V', 'SV_W']
>   >>>
>   >>> svar_info_centroid = svars_info_wall_fluid['SV_CENTROID']
>   >>>
>   >>> svar_info_centroid
>   >>> name:SV_CENTROID dimension:3 field_type:<class 'numpy.float64'>
>   >>>
>   >>>svar_info_centroid.name 
>   >>>SV_CENTROID
>   >>>
>   >>>svar_info_centroid.dimension 
>   >>>3
>   >>>
>   >>>svar_info_centroid.field_type 
>   >>><class 'numpy.float64'>  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  >>> svars_info_wall_fluid = svar_info.get_svars_info(zone_names=['wall' , "fluid"], domain_name="mixture")
  >>>
  >>> svars_info_wall_fluid.svars
  ['SV_CENTROID', 'SV_D', 'SV_H', 'SV_K', 'SV_P', 'SV_T', 'SV_U', 'SV_V', 'SV_W']
  >>>
  >>> svar_info_centroid = svars_info_wall_fluid['SV_CENTROID']
  >>>
  >>> svar_info_centroid
  name:SV_CENTROID dimension:3 field_type:<class 'numpy.float64'>
  >>>
  >>>svar_info_centroid.name 
  'SV_CENTROID'
  >>>
  >>>svar_info_centroid.dimension 
  >>>3
  >>>
  >>>svar_info_centroid.field_type 
  <class 'numpy.float64'> 
```

> SVAR data
> ---------
> SVAR Data can be extracted and modified with svar_data object.
> Here are the methods for interacting with SVAR Data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SVAR data
---------
SVAR data can be extracted and modified via the following svar_data object methods:
```

- ``get_svar_data`` to get SVAR data.
- ``set_svar_data`` to set SVAR data.

Get SVAR data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can request SVAR data for a given ``domain_name`` and multiple ``zone_names`` by calling

> the ``get_svar_data`` method and passing required ``svar_name``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the ``get_svar_data`` method and passing the particular ``svar_name``.
```

.. code-block:: python
  

>     >>> sv_t_wall_fluid= svar_data.get_svar_data(svar_name="SV_T", zone_names=["fluid", "wall"], domain_name="mixture")
>     >>>
>     >>> sv_t_wall_fluid.domain
>     >>> 'mixture'
>     >>>
>     >>> sv_t_wall_fluid.zones
>     >>> ['fluid', 'wall']
>     >>>
>     >>> fluid_temp = sv_t_wall_fluid['fluid']
>     >>>
>     >>> fluid_temp.size
>     >>> 13852
>     >>>
>     >>> fluid_temp.dtype
>     >>> float64
>     >>>
>     >>> fluid_temp
>     >>> array([600., 600., 600., ..., 600., 600., 600.])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    >>> sv_t_wall_fluid= svar_data.get_svar_data(svar_name="SV_T", zone_names=["fluid", "wall"], domain_name="mixture")
    >>>
    >>> sv_t_wall_fluid.domain
    'mixture'
    >>>
    >>> sv_t_wall_fluid.zones
    ['fluid', 'wall']
    >>>
    >>> fluid_temp = sv_t_wall_fluid['fluid']
    >>>
    >>> fluid_temp.size
    13852
    >>>
    >>> fluid_temp.dtype
    'float64'
    >>>
    >>> fluid_temp
    array([600., 600., 600., ..., 600., 600., 600.])
```

  
Set SVAR data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can set SVAR data for a given ``domain_name`` by calling the ``set_svar_data``
method and passing required ``svar_name`` and dictionary of ``zone_name`` 
to numpy array of ``svar_data``

Additionally svar_data object also supports ``get_array`` method. This method can be used to 
generate ``numpy zeros array`` for a given ``domain_name``, ``zone_name`` and 
``svar_name``. This array can be populated and passed to ``set_svar_data``.

.. code-block:: python
  

>     >>> wall_temp_array = svar_data.get_array("SV_T", "wall", "mixture")
>     >>> fluid_temp_array =svar_data.get_array("SV_T", "fluid", "mixture")
>     >>> wall_temp_array[:]= 500
>     >>> fluid_temp_array[:]= 600

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    >>> wall_temp_array = svar_data.get_array("SV_T", "wall", "mixture")
    >>> fluid_temp_array = svar_data.get_array("SV_T", "fluid", "mixture")
    >>> wall_temp_array[:] = 500
    >>> fluid_temp_array[:] = 600
```

    >>> zone_names_to_svar_data = {'wall':wall_temp_array, 'fluid':fluid_temp_array}
    >>> svar_data.set_svar_data(svar_name="SV_T", zone_names_to_svar_data=zone_names_to_svar_data, domain_name="mixture")

.. currentmodule:: ansys.fluent.core.services

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: _autosummary
    :template: flobject-class-template.rst
    :recursive:

    svar_info.get_zones_info
    svar_info.get_svars_info
    svar_data.get_svar_data

>     svar_data.set_svar_data    

Reviewer 2: Is there something like a table we can copy from somewhere showing what each SV_<*> stands for?

Author: I am not sure but  check if table can be generated.
